learning-diary.md, before:

# LEARNING DIARY

**28.8.2020**

I studied the general information from moodle and my first impression was that this course is a basic course for front-end development. I chose this module because I thought that I might learn something new about modern front-end frameworks like vue, react or angular. I was also hoping that I might learn more about typescript in this course. Even though this course may not be perfect for me, I still want to go through the exercises because I might learn something new.

I set up my environment with VSCode and signed up for a GitHub account. I skipped the intro videos for Git because I am already familiar with.

**29.8.2020**

I followed the instructions on lesson 2. I had hard time figuring out how to get fontawesome working in my project. CDN link was missing or changed from their web site. I tried adding fontawesome with npm but I couldn't get it working. I installed webpack and CopyWebpackPlugin but couldn't get it to work. Finally I decided to look for alternative sources for CDN and found it from cdnjs.com.

In lesson 3 I created JavaScript-code to handle button click with event handling. I added/removed element class properties according to the state of the menu button.

Things that I learned today:

- how to use sass mixins
- how to make sass conditional statements
- pseudo element after (&:after)
- css transitions (transform: rotate and translate)


**30.8.2020**

In lesson 4 I followed the video instructions by creating menu overlay and made the site responsive. 

Things I learned today:

- transform: translate in 3d space
- sass for loops (@for $x from 1 through 4)
- sass mixins with content

Commit message:

lesson 5: about page with css grid

learning-diary.md, after:

# LEARNING DIARY

**28.8.2020**

I studied the general information from moodle and my first impression was that this course is a basic course for front-end development. I chose this module because I thought that I might learn something new about modern front-end frameworks like vue, react or angular. I was also hoping that I might learn more about typescript in this course. Even though this course may not be perfect for me, I still want to go through the exercises because I might learn something new.

I set up my environment with VSCode and signed up for a GitHub account. I skipped the intro videos for Git because I am already familiar with.

**29.8.2020**

I followed the instructions on lesson 2. I had hard time figuring out how to get fontawesome working in my project. CDN link was missing or changed from their web site. I tried adding fontawesome with npm but I couldn't get it working. I installed webpack and CopyWebpackPlugin but couldn't get it to work. Finally I decided to look for alternative sources for CDN and found it from cdnjs.com.

In lesson 3 I created JavaScript-code to handle button click with event handling. I added/removed element class properties according to the state of the menu button.

Things that I learned today:

- how to use sass mixins
- how to make sass conditional statements
- pseudo element after (&:after)
- css transitions (transform: rotate and translate)


**30.8.2020**

In lesson 4 I followed the video instructions by creating menu overlay and made the site responsive. I continued with lesson 5 and created about page with css grid.

Things I learned today:

- transform: translate in 3d space
- sass for loops (@for $x from 1 through 4)
- sass mixins with content
- sass functions (set-text-color)
- css grid (grid-template-areas and columns)
